I'll start alright um in a case hello
everyone welcome to our very first local
offline collaboration working group
monthly if we're gonna be just mostly
spending this time kind of a knitting
booting our community having some
introductions between different folks
and what we're excited about what we're
working on and maybe talk more about
kind of the charter of this this
community and what we're hoping it can
accomplish and what we want to get out
of it so my thought was we would spend
the first you know 10 15 minutes um kind
of just sharing who we are doing
introductions was thinking could
introduce yourselves talk about what
project or projects you work on
especially in the local offline first
space and maybe share their favorite you
know use case in this area or one that
maybe got them really excited about the
space and then if if you have feelings
or thoughts say a word or two about what
what you hope to get out of this this
group and community I'm happy to go
first
my name is Molly I'm working on ipfs and
specifically this working group surprise
surprise and so thinking about all of
the ways in which ipfs and some of the
other tools in that space like would p2p
I'll be can support users who have
intermittent or low bandwidth or
asynchronous connections to the rest of
the internet their networks and how they
can make the most advantage of all of
these great tools that we've been
developing to help them collaborate and
work offline or in these cases where
they they don't have great connections
so I'm currently in the the stage of
doing a lot of research in this space
and trying to to boot groups like this
and participate in others and cool so
that's that's how I work on local
offline first and my favorite use case I
come from an education background so I
worked in education tech for a long time
it's all of the students with pretty
crappy low-end devices probably like you
know really cheap mobile phones sitting
in a classroom trying to exchange
information or do a you know a fun
collaborative quiz game that helps them
learn that shares information with their
teacher about who's getting stuff and
and it can do this all offline peer to
peer between the students in the
classroom without having to have really
awesome bandwidth to every single school
which we know is definitely not the case
even in the most wealthy of nations so
that's that's the one that gets me
really excited what I'm hoping to get
out of the this working group is I'm
excited to learn about all of the cool
stuff that's happening in the space
understand what other people find really
exciting and then be able to to kind of
share and and get you know iterative
feedback on some of the discoveries we
make throughout this research process
and be able to talk about that as a
group and come to kind of like
synthesize these conclusions and bring
them back to the community to me like
wow look at this cool stuff that that
we've been discovering like let's let's
continue the discussion and ideally make
the little offline first Internet even
better and support those these cases so
that's me
Hector I mean I promised I was going to
make you talk so do you wanna go next
yeah I just think the whole offline area
is super interested and we don't work on
it enough my dream use case is to be on
a train and being able to install things
on my computer without internet access
just picking them up from somewhere else
someone else and that's it I don't know
if I will have much time to do things on
this working group but I'm watching the
repository itself I will be following at
least
cool and don't make one go next sure so
Domenic I mostly work on go ipfs and
specifically around like platform
problems mostly I'm interested in stuff
like this because I come from a
background where I'm very used to not
having connectivity or having really
awful connectivity and while that's much
better today than it was say ten years
ago that's not the case for the most of
the world so I know that frustration and
would like to help alleviate that if I
can so
yeah that's me awesome Terry don't go
sure so my name is Terry Chen born I
currently work as a community manager at
protocol labs so it's my job to try to
make it easier to understand what the
decentralized web is and why we would
want to use it and that includes looking
for good use cases that make that easy
to understand um so my background before
coming to protocol labs is a sort of a
co-organizer of the broader offline
first community not specific to
decentralized I got into that because I
was working at a company where they used
couch TV a lot to do offline data
storage and then sink pouch DB and couch
TV so while I was there I became a
co-worker and i serve an event called
offline camp which is for the broader
offline first community and camp i've
met a lot of people who are interested
in decentralized i'd say maybe a third
of the people that some of the events
are interested in the decentralized web
as opposed to working around the
limitations of the more centralized web
so i'm interested in seeing more about
where where the overlap is between those
two interests i'm also the editor of
publications it's called the offline
camp publication of medium and I'm
always looking for articles there I will
also be launching a blog here in key one
so I'm a good place to send content
ideas to if you want to get something
out there that's really kind of like
story forum or video from your
conference talk or an idea you've been
batting around or something cool you
made that put
these things into practice I have places
to get those stories out there and I'd
love to touch people with them
awesome Jonathan tell us a little bit
yeah so I'm not part of IPs I certify
necessary webs but I've worked on a
couple of projects over the years in
that are centered around offline first
or limited connectivity or pure
connectivity so I've been building out
tools for disaster recovery
infrastructure in a project called
vacuous and I've tested out a couple of
different pieces of software and
protocols and kind of landed on using
scuttlebutt for that because it was the
most user friendly at the time and I do
a little I'm doing like freelance
product design for another offline first
project called project Lantern I'm also
part of school for quite a computation
we trusted like peer-to-peer web m.i.c
meet up last year and I volunteer for
NYC mesh and I'm there's a potential
project using ipfs cluster that I've
been working with for museums in the
United States the current museum is like
a kind of distributed museum where the
people who are members and support it
get to vote on like what gets acquired
and things like that and they've been
talking about how to reliably
collaborate and acquire pieces that are
pretty large files and make sure that
they're backed up in in multiple
locations but still private to their own
pod so I've been poking and prodding on
ipfs cluster but it still it seems like
there's a lot to learn to get it working
awesome Matt do you want to go yeah I
work on I mostly focus on sort of data
stewardship topics in a protocol apps
and so my interest in the offline first
stuff is that ultimately an offline
first application needs some way for the
data to accumulate and persist over time
and that ends up being some sort of data
set that needs to be steward it and
there's lots of different options on
that side of how to do that in
distributed ways and so I see these two
things fitting together in interesting
opportunities also there's the exciting
thing that came from the first time I
met Terry of distributed apps and
decentralized apps thus far have often
been slower and from peer and less
responsive than the centralized
alternative meanwhile offline first is
often like people often go to offline
first in order to make things more
responsive and so so I'm really curious
whether where we can leverage that
opportunity to flip this flow a lot of
that has to do with just like having a
smarter approach to the user experience
and being smart about what you
synchronize when and so I'm really
curious to see where we can take
advantage of that favorite example is an
existing app called Matteo and by
digital democracy where they synchronize
maps and then in an offline context
they're people like going out to places
like remote regions of the Amazon often
indigenous peoples and actually mapping
their local region maybe for things
where like companies are illegally
logging things like that and then they
choose whether to synchronize that data
back to a global view because they're
also doing things like marking where
traditional medicines grow which they
don't necessarily want to share and so
it's like a really rich dynamic
application of offline first and where
it also percolates into this topic of
stewardship of data over time fair and I
like I appreciate your comment about the
user experience because I'm in the
middle of editing an interview that I
did with someone who's who's big
to the decentralized community we're
talking about like all of the onboarding
challenges and getting people to
understand decentralized and use that
stuff and one of the things that came up
was like is the decentralized web just
and inherently like user hostile model
compared so the other options that are
out there so that's definitely a big
challenge to overcome yeah that's
something Pedro who is part of the
dynamic data capabilities working group
inside of IPs they they spend a lot of
time thinking about and prototyping and
building apps on top of some of the ipfs
tools and have this this area what it's
like wow it's not even so much the
technical aspect that's really difficult
in the space it's figuring out the right
UX practices and principles so that you
can think about alright my document is
syncing to one peer but maybe that's not
the peer I meant to be collaborating
with there is no more concept of like
there's a central source of truth for
how how you might be doing like a Google
Docs that's fully distributed and so
there's definitely some UX principles
around offline or local first
applications that are outside of the
realm of existing patterns and paradigms
that are well yeah yeah we've had people
write about that in the offline camp hub
Pedro came to offline camp and Jonah who
works with Johnathan on the project
Lantern also came and actually created
this really nice chart of like sort of
design concepts around that you need to
to do offline first well Matt I just
want to flag a thing that I think will
come up a lot for this group is this if
you okay if you embrace the language of
decentralized and distributed being
distinct terms from the like call barren
paper we're distributed is fully
peer-to-peer and decentralized as some
like federated the value and the power
of having things that are for pragmatic
reasons functioning as a decentralized
thing where you do have what scuttlebutt
calls pubs and like you have this notion
of like
that people can run and rely on for
reliability and connectivity and all
those things but then it's all done
using distributed protocols so the
information is identified in a way and
passed in such a way that it could be
done
totally distributed but for efficiency
you can use these these like hubs
I think is a thing that will end up
leveraging more in water and figuring
them getting the messaging clear on that
so that people understand what's going
on and they're not like oh that's not
distributed that's not peer to peer um I
think might be one of the stumbling
points for for getting people to buy in
yeah I think one of the really important
things there is like I think don't quote
me on this but I believe like the the
classical kind of decentralized space is
like there are many nodes but they're
like very privileged like a quilled
nodes for it's like oh that this node is
very different from all other nodes and
no other node could step up to be this
like kind of more this hub space but if
anyone can be a hub but anyone can
provision a hub like that's it has these
distributed patterns and paradigms that
we care about but with all of the good
stuff of actually yes being able to rely
on a connection to something and having
nodes maybe with more capability more
storage like better bandwidth stuff like
that so completely agree I think that's
a really good point that that we should
be doing notice that Peter jumped back
on so Peter we have we spent the first
whatever 10 minutes or so doing
introductions if if you are bandwidth
and situation permits it would be
awesome if you'd introduce yourself and
talk a little bit about what you think
about in the offline space what use
cases you care about and what you're
hoping to get out of this group
okay hello my name is pizza I'm mostly
here to listen and learn my interesting
offline process to learn of solution or
technologies that we can use or I can
museu to to solve a couple of problems
look and personally experienced
situations using web apps if you I wish
if only it could work offline so that
got me interested in offline interest
and joining the offline community and
I've worked with couchdb to solve some
of those problems for evolution like you
people time substitution decentralized I
have no idea what it is no ipfs so and
those yet to understand what it is and
what you are trying to achieve with the
offline full of water who does it for me
oh thank you
yeah maybe that's a good Segway you know
I I think this is we're having
interesting discussions and we should
make sure that there's time for that
here but also wanted to talk a little
bit more about kind of where where this
group is heading in the short term and
so similarly to a lot of the other
working groups in the wider ipfs project
we do quarterly okay ours to kind of set
goals for ourselves and track some of
the work that we're doing so can present
that so that folks know of those of us
who are dedicating time to this working
group I think it's generally going to be
an interest group with lots of folks who
will come and engage but want people to
be aware of kind of the the work that
we're doing I believe it's this mainly
for IPS it's gonna this this community
is completely open so definitely not
limited to folks who work on ipfs or
even you know are specifically focused
or care about ipfs solutions I think
it's we're looking a lot at kind of the
wider problems here and kind of one of
our big focus areas for q1 and q2 of
next year is understanding the space and
documenting kind of pain points with
ipfs but also pain points in the wider
community and needs and kind of a
taxonomy of the different applications
that that exist and are trying to meet
needs here so definitely broader than
specific ipfs tooling so if you can see
I'm actually presenting my my screen
right now thumbs up all good
awesome and so we have a place on github
which documents this group which maybe
some of you guys saw and we have an open
issue about our q1 ok ours and kind of
the the main three goals were focused on
for q1 is you know forming this
community first off and like making sure
this is a place that's that's useful and
we're bringing interesting discussions
and having pushing like this project
forward but also doing research and
understanding kind of of all of the the
folks who are engaging with ipfs and in
the wider community what are some of the
development pain points so UX is a good
one that we brought up having like this
more decent decentralized versus fully
distributed model and being able to have
nodes that step up to like give the
reliability and connectivity aspect is
another good one like surfacing and
documenting those pain points in the
common solutions and tools that people
use in order to make decentralized apps
work really well for this offline or
local first collaboration case and then
finally forming and finding
relationships throughout the community
Carrie's going to be doing some work in
the offline first base organizing
offline camp and I think in general
there's a lot of interest to to talk
more with people to document best
practices and make sure that as we boot
this community we're following those to
make sure we spend our time really
effectively so if if folks have ideas or
input I think right now it's Terry Pedro
and me who are starting to drive this
forward but as if people want to kind of
contribute or want to talk more about
some of these topics or volunteer for
some areas for super open to it and that
the that'd be awesome
curious if anyone has thoughts or
feedback on kind of these focus areas or
recommendations for us this week kind of
kick things off
you
so I think a couple of the areas where
we have kind of like explicit open
questions I think I wrote this in the
doc are kind of like what who are the
research orgs maybe that we should be
reaching out to that are actually
actively doing user research in this
space because we want to learn from
their understandings and knowledge Matt
I know you have a couple of connections
like Nikola space right was was one of
the folks that you're connected with
who's like you know in the field
understanding pain points actively in
kind of doing offline collaboration and
and trying to have more mesh networking
tools curious if anyone else is familiar
with some folks that you know we can
just source a list of people we should
start reaching out to and see if there's
opportunities to collaborate
back then well there's all the people at
Digital democracy who made Mateo they
use that and I think it would be good to
sync with them and learn about why they
used on and not IP efest and also
they're just more generally in their
understanding of the use cases they've
tackled that'd be awesome
thank you it's great recommendation yeah
I've also heard a lot more about that
than about ipfs within folks that
offline camp which I don't know what the
technical differences are then make that
the case but there are certainly a lot
of people in that community that are
doing like data science II type things
or okay I guess I'm trying to think but
you know like I know people who are
heavily involved in scuttlebutt which is
different like social and networking
people who have helped to build Mastodon
but yes I know many people I can tell
you which camp attendees care about II
centralized more than others but also go
into the offline camp
popping clicking on that decentralized
tab it's a place to see some of the
folks you've written about it and what
up it's they've written about in that
connection overlap um and I mean you
should jump in a couple of minutes cuz I
have another call but it's great to meet
everybody thank you for attending gotcha
so uh as part of like school for credit
computation which I put a link in the
notes for Tay and joy has been working
on kind of a long-standing project
called the distributed web of care and
I'll you know I don't want to speak for
him too much but the one of the ideas
that he talks about a lot and like I
hope he had um kind of two students that
were working under him for a separate
project and some of the ideas around
distributed technologies and
decentralized technologies was not about
the technology itself but about the
communities that they create so thinking
about kind of higher level like okay the
tech could be decentralized or
distributed and it talks about node
privilege but there's also like communal
privileges and I don't know they've just
been doing like a lot of really deep
thinking about that and I can connect
you to them and similarly I saw a lot of
representation for debt and a little bit
around scuttlebutt when they hosted the
peer-to-peer web conference which had
probably the most amazing opening of any
conference any technology conference
I've been to what Wi-Fi don't so we
started we were passed around like a
little card with a spell on it and we
everyone in the room cast a spell and
that spell was taking back our creative
and energies from centralized like
communities like Instagram and Twitter
and all that and as we were saying it
was being fed into a microphone to
create entropy for a shared key that we
were all given to commemorate that
moment together so like we all have a
private key you know I don't know it was
just like pretty wild and kind of set
the tone for like you kind of stopped
people from being like that's not
decentralized or not for that's not
perfectly distributed you know like
people are starting to think about more
impactful things so yeah they're
researchers did that's awesome
I I will go and I I was not familiar
with this p2p web conference so I'll go
watch some of the hopefully they have
published recordings of some of the
talks from there that sounds like a
solicitor
they might not have any recordings but
I'll talk to tell you in about kind of
the ephemera that came out of it and see
if I can get some more if they have
something part of it Arkady and I both
went we were both there I don't remember
a camera so I don't know if they
recorded it quote well Matt if you have
any any notes or if either of you guys
have any any notes or takeaways I would
love to hear more about it it sounds
really cool
a lot of the same things were presented
in this the D Web Summit session for dot
anyone go to the thing that was hosted
after D web like by I think it was
pseudo room someone told me that there
was like a pseudo room after D web chat
that was like two days long not familiar
yeah I think I think a lot of the people
who couldn't afford D web they sudo room
kind of just last minute was like hey
you know we can give you space and like
a platform and chat but I don't know
many people who went maybe like I think
Caroline senders might have gone who's a
researcher on who deals a lot with like
how to build better UX to deal with
online harassment which is kind of an
interesting question for communities
like scuttlebutt for example where like
you only see the data of people you
follow and people they follow and like
how does how does that interact with
like the idea of censoring or dealing
with harassment they had a really big
problem with online identity early on
that was supposed to be a they're
supposed to help against harassment but
it it actually didn't but anyway that's
getting into the weeds of things so yeah
I'm curious like I definitely see like
the UX challenges of trying to not
having centralized applications as being
a big challenge for developers who are
kind of coming in and trying to build
bottoms up for kind of offline or local
first collaboration model where it's
like great my application should be just
as powerful when people are
not connected to any central server as
but like with a subgroup of people that
they want to collaborate with or
communicate with so I see a lot of
challenges there I see a lot of
challenges around like the persistence
connectivity side curious like identity
seems like something that is also super
challenging in the kind of distributed
decentralized model I'm not quite sure
about the intersection with offline so
if anyone who's thought about that more
would be curious about your your
thinking's about you know offline first
and identity and if there's additional
challenges over just decentralized it
when we start thinking about like people
who have like sporadic connectivity and
stuff like that
most of the mostly offline or
peer-to-peer communities that I've
interacted with have less problems with
identity verification because they are
physically closer to each other and the
communities are smaller so that's kind
of one of the places where it ends up
being slightly better is that if you
feel like a more tight-knit group
because you are a smaller group and
you're not broadcasting the behavior I
mean it still has like problems of
employess of power structures and and
people having different expectations
that aren't like written out but they're
much easier to deal with when things go
wrong because you you're not like
appealing to something that's massive or
faceless or distant to moderate for you
so actually I think it's identity
verification might be easier with
peer-to-peer or offline stuff
that's good insight thank you there's
possibly the most successful offline
first use case is get it it is offline
first and you use it locally and then
you choose to sync it to what github is
actually not even part of get the
centralized thing is not even part of
the get application or its protocol and
so if you think about that and how you
identifies new signs you optionally sign
your commits we've get and then that
deals with the authentication thing
because it's like it just boils down to
your standard web of trust stuff do I
trust stuff signed using that private
key and I think a lot of a lot of your
sort of offline use cases if you do want
to grapple with identification boil down
the dock it's like it Rhian Vokes the
kind of label trust problem absolutely
I'm curious if any one kind of switching
gears a little bit talk about let's talk
about our favorite tools or existing
folks who are operating in kind of the
offline first local first decentralized
collaboration space just as as to get a
sense of like those things that exist
out there that we think are doing a
really good job or ones that maybe are
like well-known and popular and we can
talk a little bit you know that gives us
a sense of what is the the gamut of
applications that exist out there that
are trying to do cool stuff and some
folks that maybe we can talk to you
about best practices and what has made
them so successful and their key
insights and in getting the either with
that popularity or building tools in a
really good well-designed way so do you
folks have have ones that come to the
top of their head
you
I mean that's initial like hey work this
webpage and make your own is really
solid that that UX of working with a
bunch of people who haven't done
programming before or like artists that
just want to publish a zine and feel
like not even think about the text so
much you know telling them okay open
this Web browser and find a page you
like and then make it your own
feels pretty powerful um that one's
pretty good
and scuttlebutt if you're in the same
room as someone else feels amazing like
if you open it up and you don't have an
internet connection or you're like
connected to the same router but you're
not you know joining a pub or doing that
dance if someone just says here have you
know here's a USB key open this and now
you can like chat with people and you
could look at history and that first
time sink if you're in the same room
together feels really good if you just
go to the website and try and like
connect to the network it feels awful
I think awesome
any others Matt Dominic
I I suppose there's that um what are
they called pirate box there's like
little lunchboxes people make that they
leave around and it's just a Wi-Fi
access point that people can connect to
and it's got a ton of weird services on
it like you can host files on it there's
chat and all that stuff and it is not
only all fine first but I guess it would
be all fine only in that the little
Wi-Fi boxes don't connect to any any
other networks precisely airdrop also
feels pretty great yeah it's like so
smooth yeah you just click on something
on the sidebar and you can send it to
people you can kind of you can kind of
not abuse airdrop but views words it
called mdns Bonjour so like I made a
chat application that forces itself into
everyone's finder so you came like is
the only local chat that doesn't require
an install where you can broadcast hey I
have a file share here and the file
share name could be whatever text you
want and then if someone clicks on it
there's just a file and if they edit the
file then that becomes a new share name
so I kind of had this like really weird
ping-pong chat room that you know
whenever anyone's connected to the same
Wi-Fi and they open up finder they can
start a conversation it's it's kind of
amazing that they have airdrop but not
like err chat where you know it would be
the same thing that I'd like to see
without having to install stuff airdrop
also highlights the things that can go
wrong I mean it's not always when it
works it's beautifully smooth but when
it doesn't work it's sort of like
baffling and like I've had comical
scenarios like a friend trying to share
three photos with me managed to share
with the ten other people at the table
we never managed to get it from his
phone to mine
weird
yeah I think a case that drives me crazy
and those is like ah but like it it
needs to work between everyone and I
have this moment where I'm like trying
to transfer but just someone with
Android and I'm like I'm so sorry but I
have nothing for you
when that comes to mind from some kind
of like my my area of passion is the
work that Khan Academy Light is doing
around distributing kind of all of the
Khan Academy videos and and I believe
some of the tooling as well for teachers
and students around kind of tracking
student progress through watching a
number of offline videos I think they
have a more manual process of kind of
interfacing directly with schools and
getting the set up and having server so
it's definitely not not smooth but love
the the capability to bring all of that
content to the edge of the network and
make it really accessible to groups who
would not be able to have that sort of
kind of flipped learning model given
their bandwidth their infrastructure
capabilities has anyone tried using f
droids USB capabilities like I know that
you don't need to connect to a central
repository INF tried to share files and
there was like someone at the Mozilla
did like a challenge
with the NSF last year why like it with
the nickname is wins WI ns
and one of the finalists for that had
like built a sneaker net
for like a sneaker net app store on top
of F droid they just like made a
repository for tools that are offline
first so that you know they don't just
yeah I think it was just a repository of
the filter tools for all in person and
the video showed people just being like
alright plug this USB stick into your
Android phone and now you can install
apps and you can chat with people and
that but I don't I don't know how well
it actually worked
interesting so excuse me so I use F
droid and while it has the capabilities
you can you can share packages over
Bluetooth with other people that already
have after I'd installed I've never met
another Android user that wants a free
package for my phones I've never tested
it but it's supposed supposedly can do
that how hard is it right now Dominic
for you and I to pretend to be on the
same network and send like my favorite
after I tapped to you or vice versa you
know like why is that's another thing
I've used and rock for like command-line
you know web server testing but nothing
setting up a VPN seems really painful -
especially - because we don't like it's
not over land we would have to do it
over I guess cereal like Bluetooth
cereal however I know that someone in
our organization has a working version
of a repo hosted through ipfs so in
theory if we both installed that fork we
could send packages to each other over
the network but how we would you know
about each other like getting the
identity down of like I want Jonathan's
stuff that that doesn't seem like it's
solved yet
unless it's unless you manually add
everything like I'd have to add your
repository and stuff with the Nintendo
switch it has a really awful story for
adding friends they give you a UUID you
put it in and then it connects through
their servers but they have they have
something that was popular maybe ten
years ago where you could bump two
phones together and based on the time
stamp of when two people hit the API it
was like okay you two are the closest
it's probably these two people so they
they just show I think it's like playing
card suits or icons that are some sort
of hash I don't know what we would do
you know I mean in this chat we would
want to just send a URL because it's
something we can click on right
but but then what happens so something
related to this that me and Molly talked
about a while ago was the Nintendo DS
where they had the street passed off I'm
a big fan of that concept but I never
really hear that talked about I think
that's brilliant for all fine first
identity stuff the the concept is simply
that two people have devices and if they
walk near each other enough so that the
radios can communicate all it does is
tell you that later so when you go home
you say oh I you know if I walk by you
it would say oh you walked by Jonathan
today would you like to add them as a
contact and vice versa so like totally
no interaction like human interaction we
just have to be near each other and we
can accrue this like list of people and
then that also like syncs data over that
so the next time you're near them it's
like almost like a dated courier service
but you could also just use that to
transmit that UUID
and then have network capabilities
around that it's that make sense
some of the stuff Nintendo does with
offline stuff is really interesting and
just I think a lot of people don't focus
on it I guess because it's a game
console or something
at at our networks which I put a link up
in the meeting notes which was a really
warm and wonderful kind of very similar
to this like offline first conference
they and they were actually streaming
video over IP FS which was cool calm
state of our networks yeah yeah I I
missed the conference part but they had
three days afterwards for like hacking
and I made it to that one of the people
there had started to design similar to
Street this he want to do Street pest
for coasters so the idea was like he
wanted to walk down the street and have
other people who had just like low
quality pictures of shows that were
going on in the next week like that were
local just to show up in his phone and
be able to like scroll a feed of things
that that were essentially
advertisements but ones that he cared
about and we looked into like how low
level can you how can you send data to a
phone without connecting to that phone
via ad hoc right like you don't want to
set up an access point and and connect
and setting up for like meshing is not
that great but you can you can stuff
like advertisement packets into like 802
point eleven or you can use a side
channel like Bluetooth which is how
which is how the initial negotiation for
airdrop works right so you discover each
other over Bluetooth but then you
transfer using Wi-Fi direct that is you
know I'd like to see that happen just to
be able to passively share with people
who physically were near you without
training a ton of battery it's awesome
yeah that definitely seems like the
sorry to jump in Lisa that's that seems
like if anything probably the biggest
challenge with this stuff is like as
soon as we nail the concepts down at the
end of the day it's like we have to
figure out how to make this power
efficient or nobody's kind of want to
use it or more importantly nobody's
going to want to sync that data or relay
that data also quick shout out one more
thing for the list I don't know if this
counts but sync thing something I use a
lot it's basically like Dropbox but
self-hosted and a little bit less
friendly but it works it's good
something to look into maybe sounds
awesome yeah I wanted to spend maybe the
the last 10 minutes talking a little bit
more about use cases and so when Tom
Mike and I as part of we had a glide PFS
hack week spent a while talking about
kind of the various different use cases
of trying to like bucket them and
organize them
and kind of the the place we got to was
have three high-level categories and
would love us time to like stress test
them and see if we can think of other
areas that maybe don't fit within those
buckets but we had kind of one around
the the education enterprise space which
is you have people who are collaborating
on a project together in a space and
maybe they have intermittent access or
they just have a thin bandwidth
connection and they want to be able to
sync a lot of their edits and changes
and files locally before maybe
persisting to some some server that's
gonna stick around for a long time and
make sure they have replication but for
example if two people are editing a
document or chatting or something they
care about the latency to each other
much more than they care about latency
outward to a network of far-off
computers or centralized servers and you
don't they don't want to relay through
that far away server so that was kind of
like one use case and there's like a
number of sub use cases in that space
things like
Chadd document headed a and a lot of
stuff in there then there was a use case
around kind of just like peer-to-peer
file transfer and this is kind of the
airdrop style like I want to send you
this file I want to send you this photo
I want to get this photo like how do I
get it could it be passed through people
to me but like trying to move content
around that way and then finally the
last one was kind of this kind of
somewhere in between which it's like
it's like a local social kind of
collaboration thing but like with kind
of dense networks or stuff that's like
more relevant in your local community
and it kind of brushes up against the
education Enterprise case but it's more
around like and if maybe gaming or
community networks or like social social
sites that are more locally relevant
where you could imagine that people in
in areas have have similar somewhat to
some extent similar interests in the
most popular video content or local news
or stuff like that and so how how do you
help or like crowds and communicating
within crowds of people that say a
conference or a concert or something
like that so those are kind of the high
level categories we came up with and it
seems like there's a lot of stuff
curious if people either have ideas or
use cases they are familiar with they
don't seem to fit well into one of those
or want to thumbs up one area in
particular is being like this one's
actually really important and where
folks should be spending a lot of their
their time early because it's going to
be the most powerful or the most heavily
needed
you
I mean I said it earlier the I'm working
on Museum project and on disaster
recovery so those two are very different
use cases disaster recovery cares about
[Music]
wayfinding first which might be a little
outside the realm but maybe not just
being able to say where is this thing
and then that's the initial couple of
days like people just care where things
are and and who has checked in where and
then for long-term relief one of the
cares is coordination and authenticity
and being able to make it easy for
different groups of people to have some
sort of verification or signatures of
good data and like maybe not so good
data you know so social proof is kind of
important in that sense and then for the
museums they're they're pretty weird
they really care about I mean I don't
know if this is a weird thing but they
really care about like his history
there's a word for it like the audit
trail of how things go from A to B or C
to D so like if you want to you know
wend a digital piece to someone else and
then get it back and you want to verify
that the data you got back is 100
percent bit for bit correct but they
have this idea that like that lawyers
agree with that bike even if the data is
the same the metadata around it a
history that it went somewhere and came
back is important so it's kind of this
contentious like you know if every bid
is exactly the same then there's no way
technically to differentiate it from
where it came from right yeah but you
know that that's why I like content
address thing works but what they care
about is oh no no no we went to you for
three months and this event happened and
you got value out of having this thing
during that event and therefore the fact
that it was there matters yeah and and
like oh you know ownership and like time
stamping tend to move away from
decentralized solutions and more towards
like central authorities so if there is
a way to have like distributed
signatures that matter or something like
that that that'd be pretty interesting
and then they also care about just only
sharing their data with other
institutions they will trust each other
to house data for backups but they will
not trust you know Dropbox or or Google
or whatever so there's kind of like the
use case that seems pretty well accepted
but I haven't seen anyone do it well
besides space monkey which is you have a
hard drive and some amount of it's
reserved for other people's data and the
same for you and you know hope that you
can recover it
interesting yeah I think the this idea
of like time stamping of stuff was like
spent like just a couple hours on a
weekend trying to build a fully
decentralized game on top of ipfs and we
were trying to do bughouse which is this
timed collaborative chess game and and
so you have like timers on on different
chess boards and then you have four
peers that are playing chess at the same
time it was like wait hold on how how do
the timers move and what if people
disconnect how do we know whether
they've disconnected or other people
have disconnected do we boot people at
some time it was just like this entire
problem of like synchronizing states and
among four people when no one is the
source of truth and eventually you're
like there are hard questions here we're
gonna choose an easier game without
timing but all right thank sector but
yeah but it'd be really interesting for
the museum case where they care a lot
about tag stampings of like welcomes who
is the authority for time stamps like
whose time that's that's really
interesting case dominic do you have any
pet use cases or things that you think
are strategically valuable to push on i
don't know about strategic but i I know
that personally the thing I'm most
interested in seeing like I think this
has the most authenticity is um I like
the idea of just places that don't have
connectivity just flat-out not bad but
like don't have it I love the idea of
syncing data to them how do how do they
get updates to stuff efficiently how do
you physically get it there all that
stuff to me that seems really important
for like in countries that are not at
risk of anything at the moment but still
don't have connectivity that helps them
grow and then for like disaster
situations you know that that helps the
relief there I feel like so
that's something that's an opinion I
guess I'm Jonathan I'd be curious um you
know in I took a peek at project Lantern
because I think it was mentioned in the
offline first community chat and so I
was I was looking around through it and
it seems super cool I'm curious how like
the data like you have all of these like
hotspots that are distributed around
like how do those get disseminated is
like someone like actively going and
setting up a network in a certain area
um and like you know other other stuff
in that disaster relief space of like
getting data to people and doing the the
authenticity verification you were
talking about so I don't want to
bad-mouth my new employer or one of my
clients however you want to describe it
or partners or collaborators it's kind
of a new thing me working with them
everything has space for improvement so
we'll copy out that like we talk about
the stuff that doesn't work well in the
case of like we want to go and make it
better and we need to understand it to
make it better
exactly so um project Lantern as I
understand it there there's a lot of
people on the team and I have only met
like three so maybe there's around 30
people who are somewhat involved and I
don't know if they're involved like as
just a collaborator a researcher or
intern or working for them but I know we
have a lot of researchers at McGill
University who's working with us and a
lot of the research that I've seen is
been unlike feedback and UX and and
technology and the field research the
only person I know who's on the team
who's done field researchers the founder
and I haven't talked to him a lot about
it so my general understanding of the
state of how this gets deployed is like
literally we're going to be doing our
first you know 15 costs node test
deployment just to see is
the bass good enough for us to hand this
over to people and and actually find out
where those rough edges are similar we
thought the project that I worked on
also for that wins challenge vacuous it
never a vacuous that yeah I got a better
one someone recently they created some
like YouTube clone or something and they
called it like something awful vitriol
and like yeah that's a terrible name
yeah I mean maybe accurate but like
terrible
ya know vacuous was just the code name
that stuck which is really bad I need to
get I need to remember that names just
always stick but yeah so it's just like
a backpack the the data how the data
gets to it we we didn't distribute any
data that wasn't already
unlike the SD card right so the idea is
like it's almost ingest only we're not
we're not we're not seeding it with like
we we seeded it with some map data
because that was small and easy to do
but that map data came from the Internet
at some point so like you needed to have
some connection but once you were on the
network files were shared from each
other and I don't know if it was
important or not but any single Bakula
snowed could create could root strap
another node so like if you had one
Raspberry Pi with an SD card and you
plugged into the USB port
another SD card reader writer it would
automatically earn a second image and
make a pure node and do all that
bootstrapping so that you wouldn't need
to connect upwards again that's one
awesome
I think that's huge like that's actually
a thing when we talk about ipfs nodes
it's like okay well I really would like
it if all of the people in my space had
IKEA
that's node so that I could be pulling
content from them and they could be
pulling something for me and we'd all be
this happy little you know offline ipfs
family then it's like well but we need
to be doing this node bootstrapping
we're like maybe I come in with this but
no one else does how do I get them IP of
us if they don't already have it say
we're on an airplane together or
something how do we bootstrap that's
phenomenal I love that you guys built
that but that that was just fun and
exciting for me to create and like
you're like yes we need this
bootstrapping solved but there was no
there was no research validation that
required that you know and another like
as a counterpoint the the lantern
project lantern one of the kind of
groups of people that we care about our
first responders which have a very
different set of resources available to
them and concerns available to them so
for them bootstrapping from one to node
to another isn't super important because
they can come in with a package of
bootstrap nodes already is the thought
for me I was very bottom up in my
personal values and goals because I
don't think air-dropping in a solution
ever works but that's a side thing well
the more the more you could make that
solution available and accessible before
you physically send people like I think
it depends what what your use case model
is right like if this is like oh these
are first responders who are coming in
like in the amount of time it takes up
to deploy a first responder movement and
the size of something that will merit a
first responder movement versus say you
know a school with all of their Wi-Fi
that's gone out for the day like no one
is going to send in the first responder
team of they're gonna have to figure
something out on their own yeah I think
I'm Scuttlebutt's bootstrapping story is
amazing also if you're in the same room
together I have to run but thanks for
putting this together and I'll see you
around
absolutely yeah we'll have another one
in January so I'll send out another ping
then thanks for attending this was crazy
thinkwell will then end it here since
it's just the two of us left I feel like
we have a lot of good good stuff to work
on a lot of stuff for me to go in
research and maybe I'll share back some
of my findings after learning more about
some of the tools that were mentioned
for the next one I think it's middle of
January so it's good have sounds good
awesome happy holidays and for all of
our async viewers thanks for for
attending and we'll catch you on on the
next one bye bye I
you